Brothers and sisters, we are delighted to have you with us and you will be happy to know that to brother Harold Corcoran will be our
co-host this month.
It's a pleasure to be with you.
Harold, why don't you share with our audience what we can look forward to on the program?
Of course.
Those of you who have wondered what it's like to serve where the need is greater will love this segment.
It's not a family that left everything and moved to a country far away to widen out in their ministry.
And if you have ever compared yourself to someone else,
perhaps when you've seen your fellow brother or sister progress faster spiritually than you did,
then pay close attention to how this brother reasons from the Scriptures on how to avoid envy.
Also, our team met a sister who used to be a national sports champion, but found something better.
The truth transformed her life.
This is the August program of JW Broadcast.
I would like to talk about generosity. It's such a beautiful quality.
We all like it when someone is generous to us, but what about the other way around?
Ask yourself, what others in my family or my congregation view me as being a generous person,
or might they view me as stingy or possibly oblivious to the needs of others?
Ephesians 5.1 urges us to become imitators of God.
Jehovah is very generous indeed.
Think of the ransom of his son.
Jehovah generously brought back our future hope of everlasting life.
Can we imitate his generosity?
At Luke 11 13, Jesus likened Jehovah to a loving parent.
Just as a parent gives good gifts to his children, Jesus said,
how much more so will the Father in heaven give Holy Spirit to those asking him?
Similarly, if anyone is in need of wisdom, he can simply ask Jehovah.
James chapter 1 verse 5 says that he gives generously and without reproaching.
Jesus too was a generous person. Do you remember his first miracle?
He was at a marriage feast and the wine ran out to avoid embarrassment on the part of the
newly married couple and to ensure that the guests enjoyed the rest of the meal.
Jesus turned 100 gallons or almost 380 liters of water into fine wine.
That was generous indeed.
Now back to our earlier question, do those in my family or my congregation view me as being a
generous person? What are some ways that I can show generosity?
Due to the economy in the past few years, many of our brothers were out of work
for a period of time. The governing body is aware that many of you generously provided food
and even money so that their families could get by. We commend you for your generosity.
In fact, that is exactly what Jehovah wanted you to do.
Now due to Ronomy chapter 15 verse 10, it says,
you should generously give to him and you should not give to him grudgingly.
For this is why Jehovah, your God, will bless your every deed and undertaking.
Did you notice that we are to give but to do so with the right attitude?
He said not grudgingly and when we show such generosity,
Jehovah will indeed bless our every deed and undertaking.
Maybe you have experienced that. When we give to others,
often we find we are blessed with more than we gave away in the first place.
Proverbs 11-24 makes that very point. It says, one gives generously and ends up with more.
Jesus Himself said, practice giving and people will give to you.
In addition to providing materially to those in need,
how else can we demonstrate this spirit of giving?
In our May program, Brother Lat explained the goal of the governing body to accelerate
the building of places of worship and other theocratic facilities.
We would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your generous response over the past few
months and for your continued support of this all-important work. Thank you very much.
How about this one? Are we generous when it comes to forgiving those who have offended us in some
way? Come again? I ask if we are generous for givers. The religious leaders in the first
century taught that you only had to forgive a person three times. That was it.
But Jesus taught Peter that that was being stingy, knowing that three times was the limit.
The religious leaders established Peter no doubt thought. He was generous when he asked Jesus at
Matthew 1821, how many times is my brother to sin against me and am I to forgive him? Up to seven
times? Peter likely thought he was being generous seven times. That was more than twice the limit
that was established back then. However, what did Jesus say in response? You're too stingy, Peter.
In verse 22, Jesus said to him, I say to you not up to seven times, but up to seventy seven times.
Now that was generous. We don't keep count. We just keep on forgiving our imperfect brothers
and sisters. Divine forgiveness is expensive. It's generous. Psalm 86.5 says of Jehovah,
for you are good and ready to forgive. How are we doing in this regard? Are we ready to forgive
when our feelings are heard? Are we offended? We can be generous with our time. Are we quick to
volunteer to clean or maintain the kingdom hall? How about spending time visiting the sick or
elderly in our congregation? Are helping a new student on the Theocratic ministry school to
prepare his talk? Time is a precious commodity. Are we generous in doling it out for such
noble purposes? Speaking of giving of our time, are we generous when it comes to the ministry?
At Philippians 1.5, Paul called it the contribution you have made to the good news. It's true,
all of us have different circumstances. But if we look over our publisher record card for the past
six months, would we consider ourselves to be generous in the amount of time we devoted to
sharing the good news? Husbands, wives, parents, elders, pioneers, publishers? Do we generously give
commendation to others? Problems 3.27 says, do not withhold good from those to whom you should give it.
Do we sometimes withhold the commendation? Why would we do that? At times we simply forget to tell
someone what we appreciate about them. On the other hand, some find it easy to commend those who
they consider are inferior to them or those who are superior to them. But at times we might have
trouble commending a peer. We might think, if I commend him, he might think he's better than I am.
Or suppose there is a brother who gave a very good talk in the congregation. But you were somewhat
annoyed by his overuse of the expression. Do you know what I mean? We might feel that if we
commend him on his talk that we're tacitly approving his overuse of that phrase, do you know
what I mean? Why not sincerely commend him on something you specifically appreciated about the
talk? Of course, if you are an elder or the Theocratic minister's school overseer, you might
bring the overuse phrase to his attention, but after sincere commendation. All of us appreciate
commendation. Three times, Jehovah's voice was heard from the heavens giving him commendation,
approving his son. In Revelation chapter 2, Jesus provides commendation to several congregations
in Asia Minor. Yes, a word spoken at the right time. How good it is. At Acts 2035, Jesus is quoted as
saying, there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving. With that simple statement,
Jesus captured the essence of true generosity. A generous person gives freely of his time,
energy and resources to benefit others. And generosity is measured not by the size of the gift,
but by the motive of the giver. Again, the governing body wanted me to take this opportunity
to thank all of you for your continued generous support of the worldwide work.
Brother Corcoran will now share some examples of brothers and sisters who have shown generosity
in their lives, Harold. Yes, you're about to meet the Williams family from Britain.
Their circumstances allow them to generously give of their time and resources
by serving where the need is greater. But was it easy? No, but their desire to serve Jehovah helped
them overcome their fears. The things that I'm scared about are also the things I'm excited about.
I think it's fear of the unknown. It's leaving one life behind and you're what we're going into
this totally brand new life. It's going to be mixed emotions leaving the house because I know
there's so much ahead of me that it's going to be wonderful. We focus on the future and things
ahead. My name is Mark Williams. I'm a father and a husband. The circuit overseer came to the
congregation and he showed the video good news to every nation tribe and Tongue. And as a family
man when I saw that when Alison saw that we thought well maybe that's that's something that we could do.
So we were just kind of nudging each other and thinking well look at that that's fantastic.
My name is Alison Williams and I live in Buckingham. We wanted to take our children into an environment where
they could blossom and thrive spiritually. So they're all kind of contributed to us thinking well
why don't we why don't we take a trip why don't we go and visit Ecuador at least to see.
We went from month to visit Ecuador while the lunch was one of the best months we had.
We did get many of our questions answered. I'd never put a lot of
thought into whether I could go and serve in another country because I was probably holding on to
my life here, life in the congregation, life in this out in our little home and the business as well.
Well we eventually did come to the point where we made the decision that we would go.
In eight weeks time we are leaving England to go to Ecuador to serve where they need
us greater. We're also proud of each other. I'm so proud of the children in March because
they've got rid of so many things that have been close to their hearts and yet they've had such a
great spirit about it that it's made me feel really really proud of them. We're going to serve
in a city in Ecuador called Quenca which is in the Andes. So it's cooler which is easier for us
Brits. It's a it's a combination of trying to bring together two needs the needs that's in the field
but also we have needs as a family to make sure that particularly our children feel comfortable.
The meetings have been wonderful because the brothers have given us such a warm welcome.
They just have showered us with love and they've been so patient even though we don't know the language.
One brother said you'll speak a bit like Tarzan and Jane and that's exactly how I feel.
The other day I was involved in some street work, left an invitation with an old man, shook my hand,
sport lots of Spanish that I didn't understand but when I left him and walked down the road I
looked back and there he is, he's got the invitation open, he's reading it. I think they're just
happy to hear his try. Whoever you are in a cafe or a restaurant or the taxi or a bus,
everybody is ready to hear about Jehovah. I really enjoy being with the Lopez family. I've
worked with Angel on the Ministry a few times. Actually we didn't know each other but in a matter of
about five minutes the ice was broken and it's like we've known each other for years.
It's wonderful to have this worldwide family knowing wherever you go, you'll have friends
and it's been really special to have Paola waiting for me on the other side.
And that can encourage us to do the same because really it's not impossible but an entire family
moving to another continent is something really encouraging. I really enjoy playing football,
basketball because I've been able to make new friends and get to know the brothers and sisters
better. I see how happy Alison is and how content she is and I look at the children, the association
they've got, how they're included in so many different activities in it. And as far as when I see
my children and as a husband when I see my wife so happy, that makes me happy so yeah it's all
been worth it. I just want to say thank you to my mom and dad for taking us here because we're already
loving it, we've got new friends, we feel part of a new family and just to be able to experience
some ministry and service Jehovah in a totally different land. So it's not about the things that
we've left behind, it's the fact that we're doing this together as a family and that's what's
really important. What a beautiful family. Would your circumstances allow you to serve
where the need is greater? If so, you will benefit from a very practical advice found in the August
2011 Our Kingdom Ministry article entitled Can You Step Over Into Macedonia? But let's now look
at another aspect of generosity. As brother heard mentioned, commending our brothers and sisters
for a job well done is one form of generosity. But at times there may be something that has started
growing in our heart that prevents us from doing that. Yes, envy can seriously stifle our generous
spirit. Pay close attention to how this brother worked on his Christian personality so that he could
be more generous in the congregation. My name is David, that's me there. No, not him in front,
that's Mark, that's me, the one on the ladder. My relationship with Jehovah is the most
precious thing in my life. I have always worked hard in the congregation, happy to serve my brothers
and sisters. But something happened that tested my integrity. For a long time, it had been my goal
to become a ministerial servant. Just think of how much more I could give to the congregation.
To Jehovah, the travelling overseer was visiting our congregation and I felt confident that I would
be appointed. At the next meeting, a special announcement was made to the congregation.
We are very happy to announce the appointment of a new ministerial servant in our congregation.
Brother Mark, if I wasn't being appointed as a ministerial servant, how could they make him one?
He's only 19. I was too consumed with my thoughts and emotions to pay attention to the rest
of the meeting. Afterwards, I couldn't even bring myself to congratulate Mark. I never thought I would
feel this way about a decision made by the elders. I just don't get it. What does Mark have that I
don't? How could they overlook me? He didn't take much to remind me of my disappointment and to make
me feel bitter. Every time I walked into the kingdom hall, those feelings intensified.
Being there was a constant reminder of what seemed to be injustice.
What was the point in working so hard if no one noticed? I didn't know how much longer I could
face it. I considered moving to a different congregation. Somewhere I would feel appreciated and could
serve Jehovah better. I was torn into a decision like that required playful thought, injustice.
Envy? The Bible speaks about a man who experienced similar emotions to mine.
I decided to read about him. I couldn't imagine hurting my brother.
But I was envying him. Just like Cain, sin was crouching at my door. Would I get the mastery of it?
I had to act immediately before my feelings of envy could fester into something that could
damage my relationship with my brother and Jehovah. He told me how much he looked up to me,
respected me. It was my example that encouraged him to reach out. I realized then that my work in
the congregation did not go unnoticed. I was resolved to use this opportunity to prove my integrity
and motives for serving Jehovah faithfully. Time flew by as I kept busy in the congregation.
Now I have the privilege of serving as a ministerial servant alongside Mark.
I regret how I reacted and how that affected my joy in serving Jehovah.
I'm so grateful I didn't let the roots of envy grow in my heart.
Did you notice what aspects of generosity were highlighted in this example?
As we mentioned earlier, commendation was one. In the end, David generously commended Mark
for his fine work. But forgiveness is another aspect. Mark most likely noticed that David may have
harbored resentment against him, but he never allowed that to come between him and his brother.
Yes, showing generosity by means of commendation and forgiveness truly helps preserve the peace
in the congregation. Just like David and Mark worked together in the congregation to build
each other up, let's meet some brothers who helped each other find the truth.
This story is about brother Atah Yaldiko. He is an Assyrian man from Iraq and was raised as a
Christian. Atah's childhood friend had noticed that Atah had a thirst for the truth.
But because of the political situation in Iraq, the two friends got separated and moved to
different countries in Europe. But was the geographical distance a problem? No. This is their story.
I was about 18 years old when one of my friends named Ziad asked me,
Atah, have you read the Bible? We started to read the Bible from Genesis.
I remember one time when we read the sermon on the Mount, we decided to go up to the mountain to
read. Our hometown, Agotch, has many mountains. In June 1998, I was in an accident.
In this accident, I lost both my legs. It was a difficult time because I was so young.
I was 22 years old, so it was very hard. I remember I was that time in Holland and I
hear the news from the family, from Iraq. And I went somewhere alone and I started to cry.
I came to Sweden and like many refugees, I had no desire to leave Iraq.
I was talking to Ziad all the time and one day in 2006 he called me and told me
that he was studying with Jehovah's Witnesses. So I said to him, is it logical that two
billion Christians are wrong and that you are right? And after a few months I told him also that
I'm going to be baptized. When he said that, I thought I was going to get a heart attack.
And he tried to convince me that it is not that rules, that it is maybe a big mistake
what I'm going to make in my life. I remember it was in 2006. A brother, his name was Ziad.
He talked to me about Atta. So I talked to a brother, Majid.
Ziad had left a number with him and we agreed to meet in my apartment.
I decided I would give the witnesses a chance.
I started to study for a few months and after that he told me that he don't want to have a study.
I had a lot of things to deal with. It was not the right time.
I was too tired to listen. So I told him leave me for now because I cannot be bothered with anything.
So what we did, that we just stopped the study but I still continue to phone him,
to visit him from time to time, to invite him to like the memorial or the convention.
And that's what we did for several years.
He was very patient with me and let it be up to me when and how we should study.
But he kept in contact with me to check how I'm doing.
For me, I knew very early that Atta will be a brother a day.
He was so honest, he loved Jehovah, he loved Jesus Christ and he loved the truth.
He was of great help to me. When my mother died,
he and his wife really helped me in a way that changed my life.
He invited me home to him and he asked me, can you just explain that for me?
Why should I get baptized?
I told my Jesus that I have come to the conclusion, yes, I must be baptized, it is important.
What convinced me was the way Jehovah and his organization treats people.
Jehovah is not obligated to provide us with a hope for the future, but he does so out of love.
He shows us more respect than we show ourselves.
And the way the organization is united cannot come from him.
So when I was home, we called Jehovah to Skype and he told me I can't find any reason
anymore not to be baptized.
The Massakuri had the regional convention, August 9th 2014.
It was a beautiful day.
It was one of the biggest days in my life.
So it was just a very warm feeling to be beside one of the best friends.
And remember that one day years ago we were trying to understand the battle without having any
chance to understand it.
And now we are sitting there Jehovah's Witnesses.
I often think, God, is it true, is it real? Do I really deserve to have all these blessings?
I don't have anything, no challenge to not understand everything yet,
but still, thanks to God, I can understand the Bible.
I think we don't need to be afraid that some people would never heard about the truth if they
really want to know that. Jehovah would take care of it.
So Jehovah was actually way too far out for many, many, many years.
For me, when I think of the hope of the new world, I'll be honest and say that it is not a question
about having my legs back and being able to jump like a gazelle. No, that is not what I think about
because there are problems in this world, both for me and for others, that make my legs not that
important. No, let me have a good conscience, let there be justice. By that I mean that
it is God who governs and no one else. True love, that is what I long for.
How did these brothers display the Christian quality of generosity?
Well, for one, a ta's friend did his utmost to share the kingdom truth.
But also, the brother who eventually studied with a ta provided loving support in times of
distress, even though a ta had decided not to continue studying the Bible for the time being.
And what an impact that had. Recently, an exciting announcement was made to the brothers and sisters
living in the Britain branch territory. Initial approval has been granted to relocate the local
branch offices. In fact, this is the second largest construction project that our organization
is currently undertaking. Hundreds of brothers and sisters have worked for well over a year to get
the project to this stage. The first construction volunteers are now living on location.
Hundreds more will be needed to transform this site into the new Britain branch office.
Why is this move needed? And how will it be accomplished?
Jehovah's Witnesses have been sharing the Bible's message for over 100 years.
Every year, more and more books and magazines are distributed.
To organize this, Jehovah's Witnesses maintain branch offices around the world.
Printing the world's most widely circulated magazines takes a lot of effort.
To keep up, our branch offices must run efficiently.
The branch office in Britain has a large part to play in this growing world.
But faces challenges. Its properties are fragmented, spread out over a 10-mile radius.
The decision was made to relocate. In 2014, an 85-acre property was purchased to accommodate
the new Britain branch office. Right now, the site is being prepared for construction.
A small army of volunteers will then fit out the property,
turning the site into a beautiful new Bethel home.
It is expected that these new facilities will be completed and operational by December 31,
2019. At that time, the Bethel family will move in.
Here, in this very office, skilled volunteers are hard at work designing the new branch.
There are structural engineers, architects, interior designers,
landscapers, solicitors and so many more.
Each willingly gives of their time without charge. At the heart of the site will be the printer.
Office buildings and support facilities will be situated nearby.
Modest accommodation will house the Bethel family.
These buildings will complement the beautiful countryside.
Building this branch is a huge task.
Jehova has always loved using willing volunteers on construction projects,
such as the arc, the tabernacle and the temple.
Jehova is no different today. He will use humble, hard-working volunteers
to make this and many other construction projects around the world a success.
What makes this work unique? These aren't just ordinary buildings.
They are structures that support preaching the good news of God's Kingdom.
There has never been a greater need for volunteers within Jehova's organisation.
Can you be a part of this special project?
Are there construction projects that you can get involved in, where you live?
What hard work those brothers and sisters are putting into this project?
Jehova will undoubtedly bless them for generously giving of their time on this theocratic assignment.
We will keep them in our prayers.
We would now like to introduce you to Sister Tehrumi Ugura.
This Japanese sister left a promising international career
to instead give of her energy to the true God.
A road for racing, bicycle racing against my rivals down a road.
A road I traveled just for myself.
That was my life course.
I started road bicycle racing when I was a university student.
I won practically every race in Japan.
I won the Japan National Championship twice.
And even participated in the Asian Games and the 1988 Solo Olympics.
Of course I was always happy when I won.
But that happiness didn't last very long.
Every time I won a race, I would be expected to win the next one.
And I was overwhelmed with tremendous pressure.
That frightened me.
So I immersed myself in training.
Train, race, train, race.
I was racing down a road with no end in sight.
After the Solo Olympics, I was devoted to practice.
It was then that my younger sister, Rie, who had become one of Jehova's witnesses,
gave me the happiness book.
I really agreed with what that book said.
In 1989, I started to study the Bible seriously.
Even so, I just wasn't able to believe in the existence of a creator.
So I studied the creation book.
When I read about the structure of bird's wings, my eyes were opened.
I thought, there is a creator.
The creator made this.
When I was convinced of the existence of the creator, I was able to understand the purpose of life.
It's just as Ecclesiastes 12 says.
The purpose of life is to know the creator and live for him.
I was so relieved.
In 1991, I dedicated my life to Jehova and started on the creator's road.
The following year, I started pioneering.
And my sister and I moved to a congregation where the need was greater.
But later, I was found to have kidney cancer.
And in 2005, I had to quit pioneering after 13 wonderful years.
I was really discouraged.
I could no longer do the things I had always done,
and it was difficult to keep myself respect.
However, at that time, timely publications and encouragement from the elders gave me good support.
So I tried to find joy in what I could do.
Later, I got my strength back to some extent.
And I started pioneering again in 2012.
I was overjoyed to attend Pioneer Service School again.
Jehova really helped me to continue on this road.
In this system, we think we have a lot of time in our lives, but in reality, we don't.
People should live thinking about what is really important in life in the time they have.
Of course, we can learn from the things we experience.
But the wise course is to learn from the truth and from our relationship with our creator.
I really want young people to learn that lesson.
The road with real value is not the one we take for ourselves.
It is the road we take for the creator.
Even if we, as individuals, may not have the circumstances to serve where the need is greater,
pioneer, or work on a branch construction project,
there is still a lot we can do in our local congregations.
By displaying a pioneer spirit, all of us can be generous to our neighbors.
This is highlighted in this music video entitled Now is the Time.
Many examples of generosity we've seen this month truly highlight the value of Jesus' words
as quoted in Acts chapter 20 verse 35.
There is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.
A thought I personally appreciated was to ask myself from time to time.
Would others in my family or my congregation view me as being a generous person?
Yes, we all want to reflect Jehovah's personality, to become imitators of God.
To conclude the program, we would like to share these greetings from our brothers and sisters in
Guam. Guam is a territory of the United States located in the Western Pacific Ocean.
There are nine congregations in Guam with 742 publishers.
This includes 109 regular pioneers.
Earlier this year, a special meeting was held in connection with the branch visit.
Brother Leon Weaver from World Headquarters gave an encouraging talk entitled
We Are A Spectacle. Soon thereafter, our brothers and sisters in Guam had an opportunity
to show generosity towards their fellow witnesses on the island of Chuk, which was hit by Typhoon
Mesact. Clothing and food items for several months duration were donated.
We pray Jehovah's blessing be upon all of them.
Thank you for joining us this month. This is J.W. broadcasting in Brooklyn, New York.